# rakshitha
House prices increase every year, so there is a need for a system to predict house prices in the future. House price prediction can help the developer determine the selling price of a house and can help the customer to arrange the right time to purchase a house.
the main objective is to :
Find the factors that are affecting the house prices
Fit a model considering these factors.
Evaluating the performances of different regression techniques and propose the best regression model.
Regression:In statistical modeling, regression analysis is a set of statistical processes for estimating the relationships among variables. It includes many techniques for modeling and analyzing several variables, when the focus is on the relationship between a dependent variable and one or more independent variables (or 'predictors').
Data Desciption:
The description of all the features is given below:
CRIM: Per capita crime rate by town ZN: Proportion of residential land zoned for lots over 25,000 sq. ft INDUS: Proportion of non-retail business acres per town CHAS: Charles River dummy variable (= 1 if tract bounds river; 0 otherwise) NOX: Nitric oxide concentration (parts per 10 million) RM: Average number of rooms per dwelling AGE: Proportion of owner-occupied units built prior to 1940 DIS: Weighted distances to five Boston employment centers RAD: Index of accessibility to radial highways TAX: Full-value property tax rate per $10,000 PTRATIO: Pupil-teacher ratio by town B: where Bk is the proportion of [people of African American descent] by town LSTAT: Percentage of lower status of the population MEDV: Median value of owner-occupied homes in $1000s
Data Exploration:
Summary Statistics The first step before performing any modeling is to look at the high-level summary of a dataset, understand the variables and look for any abnormalities or hidden facts present in the data. We look at summary statistics and distribution of the observations of each variable. It’s been ob-served that there are no missing values in the data. Calculate the minimum, maximum , mean, median, and standard deviation of ‘MEDV’, which is stored in prices.
A correlation matrix is a table showing correlation coefficients between variables. Each cell in the table shows the correlation between two variables. A correlation matrix is used as a way to summarize data, as an input into a more advanced analysis, and as a diagnostic for advanced analyses. From the above correlation matrix, we have found out that the attributes ‘RM’ and ‘LSTAT’ play a significant role in predicting the house price as they possess a strong positive and a negative correlation respectively with the ‘MEDV’ value. So ‘RM’ and ‘LSTAT’ are the features which we will use to fit our regression model.
We have plotted a boxplot.This will help us to detect outliers.A boxplot is a standardized way of displaying the distribution of data based on a five number summary (“minimum”, first quartile (Q1), median, third quartile (Q3), and “maximum”). It can tell you about your outliers and what their values are. We see that there are outliers in the variables ‘CRIM’, ‘ZN’ and ‘B’. Highest variability is observed in the full-value property tax rates(TAX).
Results:
We have used different regression techniques in our project. These are, Linear regression, decision tree regression, random forest regression, SVR, KNN. We found that K-Neighbors Regressor was the best regression technique for our prediction model.It has a MSE of 16.335. MSE is the perfoemance metric used to evaluate the performance. Also we have calculated he cross validaton score with k value of 10. KNN has a mean cross_val_score of -22.714. This is because here the higher the return value for the cross_val_score it is better because we hae used neg_mean_square_error which negates the MSE to minimize the MSE.
